Microservices guide general update to 3.1 (#16202)
dotnet/docs: docs/architecture/microservices/multi-container-microservice-net-applications/database-server-container.md

---

> title: Using a database server running as a container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Use a database server running as a container
```

> description: .NET Microservices Architecture for Containerized .NET Applications | Using a database server running as a container? only for development! Understand why.

Reviewer: The description should be reviewed.

Author: Done

ms.date: 01/30/2020
---
# Using a database server running as a container

You can have your databases (SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL, etc.) on regular standalone servers, in on-premises clusters, or in PaaS services in the cloud like Azure SQL DB. However, for development and test environments, having your databases running as containers is convenient, because you do not have any external dependency and simply running the `docker-compose up` command starts the whole application. Having those databases as containers is also great for integration tests, because the database is started in the container and is always populated with the same sample data, so tests can be more predictable.

### SQL Server running as a container with a microservice-related database

> In eShopOnContainers, there is a container named sqldata defined in the [docker-compose.yml](https://github.com/dotnet-architecture/eShopOnContainers/blob/master/docker-compose.yml) file that runs SQL Server for Linux with all the SQL Server databases needed for the microservices. (You could also have one SQL Server container for each database, but that would require more memory assigned to Docker.) The important point in microservices is that each microservice owns its related data, therefore its related SQL database in this case. But the databases can be anywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In eShopOnContainers, there's a container named `sqldata` defined in the [docker-compose.yml](https://github.com/dotnet-architecture/eShopOnContainers/blob/master/docker-compose.yml) file that runs SQL Server for Linux with all the SQL Server databases needed for the microservices. (You could also have one SQL Server container for each database, but that would require more memory assigned to Docker.) The important point in microservices is that each microservice owns its related data, therefore its related SQL database in this case. But the databases can be anywhere.
```

Reviewer: didn't quite follow this part: "therefore its related SQL database in this case. But the databases can be anywhere."

Author: Yep, it's not clear, will fix

Author: Fixed!

description: Understand the importance of using a database server running as a container only for development. Never for production.
ms.date: 01/30/2020
---
# Use a database server running as a container

You can have your databases (SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL, etc.) on regular standalone servers, in on-premises clusters, or in PaaS services in the cloud like Azure SQL DB. However, for development and test environments, having your databases running as containers is convenient, because you do not have any external dependency and simply running the `docker-compose up` command starts the whole application. Having those databases as containers is also great for integration tests, because the database is started in the container and is always populated with the same sample data, so tests can be more predictable.

## SQL Server running as a container with a microservice-related database

In eShopOnContainers, there is a container named `sqldata`, as defined in the [docker-compose.yml](https://github.com/dotnet-architecture/eShopOnContainers/blob/master/docker-compose.yml) file, that runs an SQL Server for Linux instance with the SQL databases for all microservices that need one.

> 

Author: Nope, in this case it's OK using SQL database as a general term.

{
    var configuration = GetConfiguration();

    Log.Logger = CreateSerilogLogger(configuration);

    try
    {
        Log.Information("Configuring web host ({ApplicationContext})...", AppName);
        var host = CreateHostBuilder(configuration, args);

        Log.Information("Applying migrations ({ApplicationContext})...", AppName);
        host.MigrateDbContext<CatalogContext>((context, services) =>
        {
            var env = services.GetService<IWebHostEnvironment>();
            var settings = services.GetService<IOptions<CatalogSettings>>();
            var logger = services.GetService<ILogger<CatalogContextSeed>>();

            new CatalogContextSeed()
                .SeedAsync(context, env, settings, logger)
                .Wait();
        })
        .MigrateDbContext<IntegrationEventLogContext>((_, __) => { });

        Log.Information("Starting web host ({ApplicationContext})...", AppName);
        host.Run();

        return 0;
    }
    catch (Exception ex)
    {
        Log.Fatal(ex, "Program terminated unexpectedly ({ApplicationContext})!", AppName);
        return 1;
    }
    finally
    {
        Log.CloseAndFlush();
    }
}
```

> There's an important caveat when applying migrations and seeding a database during container startup. Since the database server might not be available for whatever reason, so you have to handle retries while waiting for the server to be available. This retry logic is handle by the `MigrateDbContext()` extension method, as shown in the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's an important caveat when applying migrations and seeding a database during container startup. Since the database server might not be available for whatever reason, you must handle retries while waiting for the server to be available. This retry logic is handled by the `MigrateDbContext()` extension method, as shown in the following code:
```

The Redis image includes expose:6379 (the port used by Redis), so standard container linking will make it automatically available to the linked containers.

In eShopOnContainers, the basket-api microservice uses a Redis cache running as a container. That basketdata container is defined as part of the multi-container docker-compose.yml file, as shown in the following example:

```yml
#docker-compose.yml file
#...
  basketdata:
    image: redis
    expose:
      - "6379"
```

> This code in the docker-compose.yml defines a container named basketdata based on the redis image and publishing the port 6379 internally, meaning that it will be accessible only from other containers running within the Docker host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code in the docker-compose.yml defines a container named `basketdata` based on the redis image and publishing the port 6379 internally. This means that it will only be accessible from other containers running within the Docker host.
```

> 

Reviewer: publishing the port or publishing to port?

Author: "The" port is correct here 😊

> Finally, in the docker-compose.override.yml file, the basket-api microservice for the eShopOnContainers sample defines the connection string to use for that Redis container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, in the *docker-compose.override.yml* file, the `basket-api` microservice for the eShopOnContainers sample defines the connection string to use for that Redis container:
```
